you spent a lot of time on your
presidential campaign which was quite
successful All Things Considered given
how relatively unknown you were as a
political actor and and uh the
complexities of the current political
situation and I'm very curious about the
consequences of that I mean I did note
that you know there was a fair amount of
um I'm wondering what your relationship
is with the powers that be on the
Republican side at the moment I mean
we've seen Trump make some remarkably
interesting moves in the past few weeks
I mean the fact that he's aligned
himself with telsey gabard and RFK and
by all appearances Elon Musk who agreed
yesterday to head something like a
commission on um governmental efficiency
which would be I mean this is the
radicalness of this can hardly be
overstated right I mean RFK wants
to what he wants to rekindle the or
reformulate the health and Food
Distribution Systems like I mean that's
a major undertaking and I think he's
absolutely right about the Health crisis
that besets us I mean obesity and
diabetes are a plague of such
catastrophic proportions that they make
any risk from climate change appear like
absolutely trivial by by comparison
insanely trivial but it's radical and
well Elon Musk is a radical sort of
character and telsey gabard again she
she fits the same she she what she's
subject to the same descriptive
terminology and it's also interesting
that all three of those people are ex
Democrats right you could also say about
Trump you know it's not like Trump is
the world's most obvious conservative
quite the contrary so I'm I'm curious
about what you make of what's happening
around Trump at the moment and of around
camela Harris too for that matter
because there's also evidence that her
stance has become substantially less
radical and more conservative now you
can be skeptical and cynical and maybe
you should be about how much of that's
just surface but the Democrats did shut
out the radical leftists at the
convention to a large degree and much of
what Harris has been pushing is much
more mainstream Democrat than what you
might have expected for example if the
people like AOC or Rashida CLA had got
the upper hand the real the real
radicals in the Democratic in the
Democratic party
so what do you make of what's happening
around Trump how do you feel about it
what potential role are you playing and
might you play in the future in
relationship to that and what do you
what do you have to say about what's
happening with camela Harris and the
reconfiguration of the Democrats well
look everything you just laid out I
think accentuates an increasingly
obvious truth which is that the real
divide in this country is not between
the Republican party and the Democrat
Party as those words have become less
meaningful you have multiple former
Democrats who you named Elon Musk tulsey
gabard RFK and by the way somebody who
formerly identifies Democrat as well was
Donald Trump now you know it now looking
at the world in a very different
way on the other hand K Harris in her in
her Sprint it's not even a gradual run
it's a Sprint towards the center of
traditional political content I think
what's what we're actually seeing is is
a different divide it is a divide
between the managerial class and the
everyday citizen so I'll start with
kamla for a second here I don't think
the right spot-on critique of kamla is
that she's a communist right the
policies she's advocated for in the past
certainly would vindicate that
characterization she favors taxes on
unreel capital gains single-payer
healthc care system she has favored bans
on fracking bans on offshore drilling
she was a co-sponsor of the green New
Deal so much so that she wanted to end
the filibuster thec we go to straight
down the list of that history and I've
done that in other places but as you say
right now sincerely or not those are not
the views that she's espousing at the
moment for the most part so it's it's
less that she is a communist or a
socialist I think that's almost giving
her too much credit I think that that
gives her the credit of being an
ideologue which I don't think is I don't
think she's particularly ideological I
think she like Biden as Biden proved to
be anyway is really just another Cog in
a machine right I think that this is
part of I think the more Republicans see
ourselves running against a candidate
and to say that that candidate Joe Biden
you know when I ran for US president
right the The Pledge we had to sign to
be on the debate stage was called the
beat Biden pledge and I told the then
chairwoman of the Republican party I
thought this was a silly idea because
we're not running against Joe Biden so
why are we framing our entire Republican
primary Endeavor in the context of
beating Joe Biden in the very practical
sense that I didn't think we were going
to run against Joe Biden we're not but
even in the deeper philosophical sense
that why don't we focus on what
alternative Vision we actually have to
offer to the people so I think that's a
trap that Republicans would fall into
now again with kamla to say that okay
here's everything that's wrong with
kamla Harris when in fact that misses
the point that she's just another Cog in
the system we're not running against a
candidate we're running against a
machine and I think we have to
understand that so that is where I think
you see a lot of the common threads
between folks like you know myself to
RFK to Donald Trump to Tulsi we have
divergences between us to other more uh
historically traditional Republican
conservatives there'll be shades of
difference on individual policy
questions on the merits of one form of
of you know regulation or policymaking
or
other but what we do represent in Sharon
cman is a hostility to the managerial
class the
managerial administration of America by
I would say people who are never elected
to their positions the people who we
elect to run the government from KL
Harris to Joe Biden or who anybody else
they're not the ones actually running
the government it is a managerial
machine of which they're just a part
that really is the divide and I think
that's what we're seeing in that
changing land it's also strange it's so
strange that it's the conservative
Republicans that have found themselves
in opposition to the managerial class
because logically it should be that the
conservatives are the supporters of the
managerial administrative class I think
there have been points in history where
that's been true no doubt about it but I
think that I think that that's where you
know the word these words change their
veence and meaning over time yeah yeah
right you know the managerial class I
don't use the term the elites really as
much as some of my other friends on the
right do because I think that I'm an
elite Elon Musk is an elite you know by
any by certain definitions Founders I
think there's a different categorization
I would offer between the everyday
citizen the creators and then this
managerial intermediary class the
bureaucrat class the committee class and
I think there's always a balance of
power between all three and maybe some
element of all three is always required
in any well functioning Society but
right now we live in a moment where that
balance of power has shifted too heavily
in favor of the managerial committee
class and not just in government but in
universities and companies in nonprofits
in any institution and I think now is a
moment we live in where creators are
able to Ally with everyday citizens to
be able to drive real change and so
that's I'm a Creator by background
that's what led me to run for US
president Donald Trump Elon Musk very
similar backgrounds as creators who are
allied with the everyday citizen to
overthrow in some sense the managerial
class that has a lot of our modern
culture and certainly our modern
government in a Chokehold and so that's
what motivated me to run in the first
place I think it's it's a Common Thread
that you could connect for some of the
other characters you just mentioned and
you know for my part
look America's healthcare system is
lacking in any real care insurance
companies regularly deny Progressive
treatment options primary care
physicians refuse to order comprehensive
lab work and the standards of care lag
years behind the leading research that's
where mer health comes in mer Health
represents a paradigm shift in how we
approach medicine the Premier Health
optimization platform mer Health
empowers you to maximize your longevity
and performance with the confidence that
comes from having experts in your back
pocket they offer Cutting Edge
diagnostic Labs concierge Health
coaching and expert clinical oversight
they help you achieve your health and
fitness goals by leveraging datadriven
lifestyle and nutrition recommendations
along with supplement and prescription
treatment options if you're listening to
this show then you're probably a
proponent of taking your health into
your own hands that's why we've teamed
up with mer Health to offer a turnkey
optimization package designed for those
who want to maximize their performance
and Longevity with the most elaborate
testing on the market you'll receive
extensive lab work thorough lab reports
video calls with Merck's Health experts
and expedited onboarding go to mer
health.com Peterson and use code
Peterson to get the same panel and
medical oversight I get and save 10% at
checkout that's mer health.com Peterson
and use code Peterson
checkout you know for my part look I've
I've enjoyed uh I enjoyed my
presidential run immensely I I was the
experience of a lifetime I grew in ways
that I would not have but for doing that
one thing I uh do believe in in you know
for all the things that I could blame
for why I didn't achieve the ultimate
goal I'm grateful that I as somebody who
was relatively unknown at the start of
it I beat multiple former and current
senators and governors and a former vice
president along the way and so I'm
satisfied with how we did but at the
same time I I didn't achieve the goal of
assuming the presidency and I tell my
kids the same thing so I'll follow the
advice myself the number one factor that
is most determinative of what you
achieve in life is you it's not the only
factor that matters but it's the number
one factor and there are some things
that I think I could have done better I
think a lot of my uh former colleagues
people I've worked with employees of
mine close friends family members I
think one of the things that they were
most frustrated by they tell me this and
I appreciate that is
that they're frustrated that they feel
like the public did not get to see the
full me that they know right I think
that part of what happened in the
process of running for president and it
was unavoidable this time around and I
don't say I have any regrets considering
the result that I achieved but you know
if I was to still take some Reflections
and learning from it I took the approach
that if you hit me I'm going to hit you
back 10 times harder I don't care if
you're a Republican or
Democrat that's just that was just my
Approach and because I had been in a
position where in the world of business
it doesn't happen to you in quite the
same way but when I started to become
ascendant it was a level of uh attack
right a deeply personal attack on me
from 10 different angles that that was
the way I dealt with it was to say well
I will one by one hit you back 10 times
harder and that's how I'm going to do
this and and that that is that is part
of me I'm a fighter I'm a competitor but
it's not all of me and I think that one
of the challenges but if you're going to
lead the Free World you better be up for
that challenge at the highest level is
to show the people that you are a
fighter but while also finding ways to
really allow
300 million people who don't otherwise
know you to really get to know what's in
your heart beyond just your ability to
fight and that is I think where I left
some some room on the table over the
campaign that I think is you know
probably one of my great learnings
[Music]